# Angular 7 guide

## Setup

On your Angular project add an AppConfiguration class on `src/app/utils/app-configuration.ts`:

```typescript
export class AppConfiguration {
  static DEBUG = true;
}
```

On the _app.module.ts_ file add `HttpClientModule` to your imports:

```typescript
import { HttpClientModule } from '@angular/common/http';
...
@NgModule({
	...
	imports: [
		...
		HttpClientModule,
	],
	...
})
export class AppModule { }
```

Include the following dependencies using npm:

```
npm install moment --save
npm install sweetalert2 --save
```
If you use a different package manager, please check how to add these dependencies on these websites: 
- [moment.js](https://momentjs.com/)
- [sweetalert2](https://github.com/sweetalert2/sweetalert2)

## Adding the jCrystal generated code to your project
The generated code of jCrystal must be added in the folder: `src/app` of your Angular application. 

## Consuming web services
Call your the web services generated by jCrystal in the following way:

```typescript
...
import { ManagerHello } from './jcrystal/services/ManagerHello';
import { HttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
export class MyComponent {
	constructor(public http: HttpClient) { }
...
    ManagerHello.ping(this, resp => {
        //On success
    }, error => {
        //On error
    });
...
}
```

Take into account that on your component constructor you must add `public http : HttpClient`. Also remember to import the class of your web service in your component

jCrystal can manage the error handling by showing an alert with the error message if a web service returns an error. Therefore, if you want jCrystal to manage errors, you don't have to implement the error callback:


```typescript
...
import { HttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
export class MyComponent {
	constructor(public http: HttpClient) { }
...
    ManagerHello.ping(this, resp => {
        //On success
    });
}
```

## What does jCrystal generate? 
The generated folder of jCrystal in Angular looks like this:

jcrystal/
├── entities/
│   ├── enums/
│   └── jCrystalConfig.java
├── services/
└── JSONUtils.ts


Feel free to look at each of the files and folders, but remember that since this is a generated folder, any change on these files will be removed the next time the code is generated.

### Entities folder

The entities folder contains all the .ts files of the data models that are used by the web services of your client. Please take into account that this means that not all the jEntities on the backend are generated on typescript, jCrystal only creates the data models that are needed because they are used on some web service.

### Enums folder
This folder contains the .ts files of the enumerations that are used by the web services of your client. This folder might not be generated if the backend doesn't use any enumeration.

### Services folder
This folder contains the .ts files of the web services used by your client and some helper classes to consume those web services.
The classes that you need to use to consume the web services start with "Manager"; inside of them, you will find static methods to call a web service.

### JSONUtils.ts
This file contains utilities to transform objects into JSON. You don't need to use this class.